=== "IAM"

    We're going to lay the groundwork here and use these local accounts for all the subsequent tasks. You can write a script to do this, or do it by hand, from the data in the input file for the script. The file contents are: (1)
    { .annotate }

    1. 
    ```
    manny:1010:dba_admin,dba_managers,dba_staff 
    moe:1011:dba_admin,dba_staff 
    jack:1012:dba_intern,dba_staff 
    marcia:1013:it_staff,it_managers 
    jan:1014:dba_admin,dba_staff 
    cindy:1015:dba_intern,dba_staff 
    ```

    Set all user passwords to **dbapass**. 
    Also, change the users' PRIMARY groups' GID to match their UID. 
    Don't forget to check their home directories to make sure permisisons are correct!

    Enable the following command aliases:

    - **SOFTWARE**
    - **SERVICES**
    - **PROCESSES**

    Add a new command alias named **MESSAGES**:
    ```sh
    /bin/tail -f /var/log/messages
    ```
    Enable superuser privilages for the following local groups:

    - **dba\_managers**: everything
    - **dba\_admin**: Command aliases: SOFTWARE, SERVICES, PROCESSES
    - **dba\_intern**: Command alias: MESSAGES

=== "Repos"

    You'll need to configure three repositories and install some software:

    === "RHEL 8 BaseOS"

        - Repository ID: **[rhel-8-baseos-rhui-rpms]**
        - The mirrorlist is: **https://rhui3.REGION.aws.ce.redhat.com/pulp/mirror/content/dist/rhel8/rhui/$releasever/$basearch/baseos/os**
        - The GPG key is located at: **/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release**
        - You will need to add SSL configuration:

        ```ini
        sslverify=1 
        sslclientkey=/etc/pki/rhui/content-rhel8.key 
        sslclientcert=/etc/pki/rhui/product/content-rhel8.crt 
        sslcacert=/etc/pki/rhui/cdn.redhat.com-chain.crt 
        ```

    === "RHEL 8 AppStream"

        - Repository ID: **[rhel-8-appstream-rhui-rpms]**
        - The mirrorlist is: **https://rhui3.REGION.aws.ce.redhat.com/pulp/mirror/content/dist/rhel8/rhui/$releasever/$basearch/appstream/os**
        - The GPG key is located at: **/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release**
        - You will need to add SSL configuration:
        
        ```ini
        sslverify=1
        sslclientkey=/etc/pki/rhui/content-rhel8.key
        sslclientcert=/etc/pki/rhui/product/content-rhel8.crt
        sslcacert=/etc/pki/rhui/cdn.redhat.com-chain.crt
        ```

    === "EPEL"

        - Repository ID: **[epel]**
        - The baseurl is: **https://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/$releasever/Everything/$basearch**

    Configure the repositories on the first server, then make an archive of the files, securely copy them to the second server, then unarchive the repository files on the second server.

    - Install the default AppStream stream/profile for container-tools
    - Install the youtube-dl package (from EPEL)
    - Check for system updates, but don't install them

=== "Networking"

    On the first server, configure the second interface's IPv4/IPv6 addresses using nmtui.

    - IPv4: **10.0.1.20/24**
    - IPv6: **2002:0a00:0114::/64**
    - Manual, not Automatic (DHCP) for both interfaces
    - Only IP addresses, no other fields
    - Configure only, do not activate

=== "Logging"

    By default, the systemd journal logs to memory in RHEL 8, in the location /run/log/journal. While this works fine, we'd like to make our journals persistent across reboots.
    Configure the systemd journal logs to be persistent on both servers, logging to **/var/log/journal**.

=== "Scheduling"

    Create one **at** task and one **cron** job on the first server:

    - The at job will create a file containing the string "The at job ran" in the file named **/web/html/at.html**, two minutes from the time you schedule it.
    - The cron job will append to the **/web/html/cron.html** file every minute, echoing the date to the file.

    These files will be available via the web server on the first server after the "Troubleshoot SELinux issues" objective is completed.

=== "Chrony"

    Time sync is not working on either of our servers. We need to fix that.

    Configure chrony to use the following server:
    ```
    server 169.254.169.123 iburst 
    ```
    Make sure your work is persistent and check your work!

=== "GRUB"

    On **server1**, make the following changes:

    - Increase the timeout using **`GRUB_TIMEOUT=10`**
    - Add the following line: **`GRUB_TIMEOUT_STYLE=hidden`**
    - Add quiet to the end of the **`GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX`** line

    Validate the changes in **/boot/grub2/grub.cfg**. Do not reboot the server.

=== "Storage"

    On the second server:

    - Create a VDO device with the first unused 5GB device.

        - Name: **web\_storage**
        - Logical Size: 10GB

    - Use the VDO device as an LVM physical volume. Create the following:

    - Volume Group: **web\_vg**

        - Three 2G Logical Volumes with xfs file systems, mounted persistently at **/mnt/web_storage_{dev,qa,prod}q**:

            - web_storage_dev
            - web_storage_qa
            - web_storage_prod

    We need to increase the swap on the second server. We're going to use half of our first unused 2G disk for this additional swap space. Configure the swap space non-destructively and persistently.

    On the second server, using the second 2G disk, create the following:

    - Stratis pool: **appteam**
    - Stratis file system, mounted persistently at **/mnt/app_storage**: **appfs1**

=== "Shares"

    Configure autofs on the first server to mount the user home directories on the second server at **/export/home**.

    - On the second server, configure a NFS server with the following export:

    ```
    /home <first_server_private_IP>(rw,sync,no_root_squash)
    ```

    - On the first server, configure autofs to mount the exported /home directory on the second server at **/export/home**. Change the home directories for our six users (manny|moe|jack|marcia|jan|cindy) to be **`/export/home/<user>`** and test.


    On the second server, create a directory at **/home/dba_docs** with:

    - Group ownership: **dba\_staff**
    - Permissions: **770**, **SGID** and **sticky bits** set

    Create a link in each shared user's home directory to this directory, for easy access.

    Set the following ACLs:

    - Read-only for jack and cindy
    - Full permissions for marcia

=== "Container as service"

    As the cloud\_user user on the first server, create a persistent systemd container with the following:

    - Image: **registry.access.redhat.com/rhscl/httpd-24-rhel7**
    - Port mappings: 8080 on the container to 8000 on the host
    - Persistent storage at **~/web_data**, mounted at **/var/www/html** in the container
    - Container name: **web\_server**

=== "SELinux"

    The Apache web server on the first server won't start! Investigate this issue, and correct any other SELinux issues related to httpd that you may find.

=== "Firewall"

    Make sure the firewall is installed, enabled and started on both servers. Configure the following services/ports:

    - Server 1:

        - **ssh**
        - **http**
        - Port **85** (tcp)
        - Port **8000** (tcp)

    - Server 2:
    
        - **ssh**
        - **nfs**
        - **nfs3**
        - **rpc-bind**
        - **mountd**
